So we started with ngIf and therefore at the moment, our alert component here is simply included
with its selector and controlled with ngIf.
The huge advantage of this is that we don't have to manually create it and we also can pass data in
as we learn it here, with property binding. It also means that listening to events is super simple and
straightforward.
If we want to make sure we can also get rid of that alert, all we need to do is we need to emit an event
and we make that event listenable from outside
with the help of @output which you import from @angular/core and we could name this close and this will
be or will hold a new event emitter which we import also from @angular/core and that event emitter could
now also transport some data but here I'll actually add void as a type because I won't emit any data,
I'll just emit the "hey
this was closed" event. Now to emit this, we need a method here, for example on close
and now this will be triggered whenever a user clicks this close button or the backdrop.
So here, we can register a click listener and fire on close and we do the same when the backdrop is
clicked let's say, to dismiss the modal in that case as well.
So both of these things, the backdrop and this button will trigger on close and in on close, we can
now simply use the close event we created and manually emit it.
Now this allows us to go back to the auth component and in there, we can now listen to close
and here we can now call onHandleError for example, whatever you want to name it.
This is a method we now have to add to the auth component, maybe here and in onHandleError,
I essentially just want to reset the error, so I'll set error back to null
and by doing that, the condition for displaying the error will be removed because we're using error here
in ngIf and if that is null, then this whole alert will not be shown anymore and therefore this will
then close the alert.
So let's try this again,
let's enter invalid credentials,
here is the alert, if I click here, we get rid of it. If I now enter invalid credentials again,
let's try the close button, works too.
So now this is the finished flow with ngIf and I strongly recommend using that flow.
There are rarely situations where you absolutely need the imperative approach you're also going
to learn about, using this approach with ngIf is so much easier and therefore really is an approach
you should use when you have a scenario where you need to show some component dynamically when some
condition is met.
Nonetheless, let's now see how we could create that alert component entirely in code and control it from
there.